# Wu 2025.pdf
*Source: `Wu 2025.pdf.pdf` | Imported: 2026-05-30 14:50*
*Project: INCOMING*

---

Academic Editor: Jerrell Cassady
Received: 13 January 2025
Revised: 20 March 2025
Accepted: 23 March 2025
Published: 4 April 2025
Citation: Wu, F., Dang, Y., & Li, M.
(2025). A Systematic Review of
Responses, Attitudes, and Utilization
Behaviors on Generative AI for
Teaching and Learning in Higher
Education. Behavioral Sciences, 15(4),
467. https://doi.org/10.3390/
bs15040467
Copyright: © 2025 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license
(https://creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/4.0/).
Systematic Review
A Systematic Review of Responses, Attitudes, and Utilization
Behaviors on Generative AI for Teaching and Learning in
Higher Education
Fan Wu 1, Yang Dang 2 and Manli Li 2,*
1
Institute of Higher Education, Shanghai University, Shanghai 200444, China; wfwufan@shu.edu.cn
2
Institute of Education, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China; dangy23@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn
*
Correspondence: marylee@tsinghua.edu.cn
Abstract: The utilization of Generative AI (GenAI) in higher education classrooms has
significantly increased in recent years. Studies show that GenAI holds promise in impacting
the learning experiences of both students and teachers, offering personalized learning and
assessment opportunities. This study conducts a systematic review of the responses,
attitudes, and behaviors related to the application of GenAI within higher education
classrooms. To this end, we synthesized 99 papers published between 2020 and August
2024, focusing on the utilization of GenAI in higher education settings. The analysis
addresses three key inquiries: responses, attitudes, and behaviors. This systematic review
provides an updated understanding from psychological perspectives of GenAI’s role in
the teaching and learning processes of higher education, with a particular emphasis on
GenAI technologies.
Keywords: generative AI; responses; attitudes; behaviors; higher education classroom
1. Introduction
Generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) is not a new term but entered the public con-
sciousness in the 2020s (Zewe, 2023). In 1964, MIT computer scientists Joseph Weizenbaum
developed ELIZA, a chatbot that responds to natural language inputs with empathetic text
responses generated by pattern-matching scripts (Stryker & Scapicchio, 2024). GenAI refers
to a set of artificial intelligence machine learning technologies that can generate content
based on text prompts.
Recently, an unprecedented demand for AI technologies and skills has surged across
various sectors, such as healthcare, finance, manufacturing, retail, and automotive. As
more high-tech companies are investing significant resources to incorporate AI into their
operations, the need for AI experts is expected to increase dramatically by 2025 (Anderson,
2025). The employability report found that the workforce is unprepared, and 70 percent
of graduates think generative AI should be incorporated into courses from the graduates’
perspective (Cengage Group, 2024).
Within the application of GenAI in a higher education context, numerous studies ex-
plore universities’ reactions to GenAI usage in a higher education context. Ioku et al. (2024)
revealed that attitudes towards generative AI in top-ranked universities vary, including
strong opposition or support for the responsible and ethical use of AI. M. Li (2024) found
that with the adoption and rapid development of GenAI tools in higher education, Chinese
universities have been using the technology to enhance teaching effectiveness, optimize
research processes, improve student services, and more. In addition, the benefits of GenAI
Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
https://doi.org/10.3390/bs15040467


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
2 of 25
usage in higher education have been identified as adapting instruction to different types of
students, providing feedback for students, developing course design materials for teachers,
and supporting academic writing in several studies (Santos et al., 2024). The potential
challenges of GenAI have also been found to be significant, such as bias and inclusion, as
well as ethical and regulatory considerations (Ogunleye et al., 2024).
Further research has been called for to gain a deeper understanding of the impact
of GenAI use in HE classrooms on stakeholders’ responses, attitudes, and behaviors, to
ensure successful integration between GenAI and higher education classrooms. Previous
studies have examined the reactions, attitudes, and use of GenAI tools in general in the
immediate aftermath of GenAI technologies. However, there is an urgent need for in-depth
research on changes in students’ and teachers’ responses, attitudes, and behaviors based on
authentic teaching and learning experiences, to provide an empirical base for identifying
the fallout between technology and higher education integration to conduct research to
bridge the gap.
This systematic literature review responds to this research gap, examining stakeholders’
responses, attitudes, and behaviors regarding GenAI applications. Notably, it delves into
GenAI’s influence on teaching and learning in a classroom setting. The overarching questions
for this study are as follows: what are students’ and teachers’ responses, attitudes, and
behaviors about GenAI in HE classrooms? The following are three specific research questions:
1.
How does the use of GenAI for teaching and learning affect students’ and teachers’
responses in higher education classroom settings?
2.
How does the use of GenAI for teaching and learning affect students’ and teachers’
attitudes in higher education classroom settings?
3.
How does the use of GenAI for teaching and learning affect students’ and teachers’
behaviors in higher education classroom settings?
2. Materials and Methods
A systematic review methodology was used to answer the three guiding questions of
this study (Moher et al., 2015). PRISMA was used to search, identify, and select articles for
inclusion. Scholarly articles (e.g., conference proceedings, journal papers) published over
the past 5 years were reviewed and analyzed.
The research began with the search for research articles to include in this study. Based
on the research question, the study parameters were defined in terms of search years and
the types of publications to be considered. Next, databases were selected. Boolean searches
were created and used for databases. Once a set of publications was located from those
searches, they were examined within GenAI’s inclusion and exclusion criteria. This was
performed to determine which studies would be included in the final study. The relevant
data to match the research questions were then extracted from the final set of studies and
coded. This method section describes each method in full detail to ensure transparency.
2.1. Search Strategy
In this study, scholarly articles were selected according to a robust set of criteria. This
ensured that the selected articles adhered to academic standards of rigor and relevance, as
well as aligned with the study objectives. Specific keywords related to GenAI used in higher
education teaching and learning were used to improve the reliability of the publication
data generated. The final Boolean search string was as follows:
TITLE-ABS ((“Generative AI” OR “generative artificial intelligence” OR “ChatGPT”
OR LLM OR “GenAI”) AND (“pedagog*” OR “teach*” OR “learn*” OR course OR class-
room OR curriculum) AND (“higher education” OR “universit*” OR HE OR undergraduate
OR “graduate”)).


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
3 of 25
In order to locate the relevant articles, a systematic search was conducted on the
following electronic databases: Scopus, Web of Science, and educational databases hosted
by EBSCO. We selected these databases since they were considered the major publisher
databases. Filters were limited to January 2020 to August 2024. Using previously used
search terms, 1930 articles were found. All these articles were imported into Rayyan
software for screening. After removing 616 duplicate records, we reviewed 1314 records’
titles and abstract according to inclusion and exclusion criteria, resulting in 137 articles.
Excluding 7 articles that could not be found in full text, 130 full-text articles were then read
and analyzed in accordance with inclusion and exclusion criteria. After screening the full
text, 99 articles were left. Figure 1 shows the flow of a systematic literature search within
the PRISMA framework.
Figure 1. RISMA flow diagram of the systematic review.
2.2. Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria
The search criteria were designed to locate articles that focused on GenAI for teaching
and learning in higher education classrooms. In terms of the research questions, a set of
inclusion and exclusion criteria was adopted (see Table 1).
Table 1. Inclusion and exclusion criteria.
Inclusion
Exclusion
Published 2020–August 2024
Published before 2020
Written in English
Not written in English
Published in journals, conference papers,
book chapters
Book, abstract, thesis, PhD dissertation
Empirical research, case study
Theoretical or conceptual papers,
review articles
Has thematic focus on GenAI in HE
No thematic focus on GenAI in HE
Use of GenAI in classroom setting
Research for teaching and
learning purposes
No use of GenAI in classroom setting
Not research for teaching and
learning purposes


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
4 of 25
2.3. Screening
The screening process involved the following steps: (1) removing duplicate articles,
(2) removing articles that did not meet the inclusion criteria based on the titles and abstracts,
(3) reading the full texts and eliminating the articles that did not meet the inclusion criteria,
and (4) extracting data from the final filtered articles (see Figure 1). The screening was
conducted manually using the inclusion and exclusion criteria in Table 1. Finally, there
were 99 articles remaining for inclusion in this systematic review.
To capture pertinent information from selected studies, we systematically extracted
data. Based on Onwuegbuzie et al. (2016)’s study, a structured form for data extraction
was developed to facilitate the two-cycle coding process, which includes (1) attribute
coding: logging information about the literature for the first cycle of analysis (e.g., countries,
qualitative or quantitative research) and (2) pattern analysis: identifying similar data sets by
grouping them and generating major themes, including responses, attitudes, behaviors, and
relevance to the research questions. In order to extract and analyze the main information of
the paper (based on the article data, descriptions of GenAI in classrooms, and attitudes and
behaviors of students and teachers), a spreadsheet and MAXQDA were used.
2.4. Analysis
Qualitative content analysis was utilized for data examination (Mayring, 2015). Two re-
searchers were involved in the procedures, independently reviewing each article, achieving
an inter-rater reliability of 92% (Cohen’s Kappa coefficient). Disagreements were resolved
through discussion until agreement was reached. Table A1 shows all the code relevant to
all the included articles (see Appendix A).
3. Results
The first section of results presents the main characteristics of the included studies,
such as country, year, publication type, and research method, which were summarized
using descriptive statistics. The following sections present the findings according to each
of the three research questions. The core keywords “response”, “attitude”, and “behavior”
will be defined before the results of each section are discussed.
3.1. Summary of the Articles Included in the Review
Countries. The 99 studies took place across 42 countries on different continents of the
world. These continents include Asia, Europe, and North America etc. This indicates a
significant interest and contribution from Asian and European researchers in the field of
higher education classrooms using GenAI tools.
Years. With the accelerated use of GenAI in higher education, it shows that the trend
towards GenAI use in HE classrooms has greatly increased. The included articles focused
on publications in 2023 and 2024, with 22 published in 2023 and 76 in 2024. In addition,
one was published in 2022.
Documents by publication type. Among the included articles, 63.6% are journal
articles, 33.3% are conference proceedings, and 3% are book chapters.
Research methods. It is revealed that the majority of the selected studies are mix-
methods research articles (46.5%). Quantitative method research articles are also signifi-
cantly represented (33.3%). Qualitative method research articles (20.2%) provide founda-
tional cases and ideas for advancing understanding and practical applications.


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
5 of 25
3.2. RQ1: How Does the Use of GenAI for Teaching and Learning Affect Students’ and Teachers’
Responses in Higher Education Classroom Settings?
In this systematic review, we define “response” as the affective and behavioral re-
actions of subjects (e.g., teachers, students) to the use of GenAI in classroom situations
in the context of higher education. Table 2 provides a snapshot of the current themes
and priorities.
Table 2. Responses with GenAI used for learning and teaching practice.
Theme
Sub-Theme
Examples
Number of Studies
Positive
responses
Positive emotional
responses
Another student commented: “I enjoyed working
with ChatGPT, because I got to learn and
understand something that is going to be a part of
the future.” (King et al., 2024)
73
Willingness to
continue using GenAI
When asked “Will you continue to use ChatGPT
and other generative AI for assisted teaching in
the future?”, a total of 20 of the 25 interviewees
said that they would continue to use ChatGPT and
other generative AI, while 5 indicated that they
might not use them to support teaching in the
future. (J. Lu et al., 2024)
32
Negative
responses
Negative emotional
responses
“I wasn’t interested in AI and didn’t feel the need
to get to know it. (R5, F).” (Šedlbauer et al., 2024)
46
Reluctance to
continue using GenAI
Notably, of the 12 total responses, only 3 expressed
hesitancy about potentially using ChatGPT to
study English in the future. (Van Horn, 2024)
16
Neutral
responses
--
Cautious: This student is more careful in their use
of the ChatGPT and is less confident in the
generated code. They are likely to seek additional
support and verify the accuracy of the code
produced. (Maher et al., 2023)
16
3.2.1. Positive Responses
a) Positive Emotional Responses: The primary area of positive responses, with 73 stud-
ies, identified positive emotional responses of students and teachers to GenAI’s utilization.
Participants usually mentioned these words, such as helpful, curious satisfied, confident,
and enjoyable. For instance, Pantazatos et al. (2024) showed that the ChatGPT assistant was
highly rated by participants for its usability and helpfulness in assisting them with their
learning process. King et al. (2024) incorporate ChatGPT and other large language mod-
els (LLMs) into a graduate-level Computational Biomedical Engineering course. Overall,
students found the LLM component worthwhile because the material demonstrated that
every student and instructor gained extensive experience with exposure to LLMs during
this course. This increased their understanding of these tools’ capabilities and limitations.
Taiye et al. (2024) found that many teachers became quite enthusiastic about trying it out
for themselves and with their classes after the chatbot’s integration into the course.
b) Willingness to Continue Using GenAI: A total of 32 out of 99 studies indicated that
students and teachers might continue to use generative AI tools in the future or recommend
them to others. For instance, Neyem et al. (2024) introduced the AI Knowledge Assistant
to address existing technology limitations by enhancing the quality and relevance of large
language models (LLMs). In the feedback, students demonstrated a strong desire to employ
the assistant in future projects. In Kumar et al. (2024)’s study, both groups of students had
access to an LLM tutor interface to solve assignment problems. After solving the problems,


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
6 of 25
one group was asked to engage in reflection through the same tutor interface. In the end,
both groups were asked to rate how helpful they found the LLM tutor and whether they
were willing to interact with the LLM again. Students who were given the opportunity to
engage in reflection with the tutor reported a higher willingness to interact with the LLM
Tutor, compared to students who only used the tutor to solve problems.
3.2.2. Negative Responses
a) Negative Emotional Responses: A total of 46 out of 99 studies revealed that students
and teachers had negative feelings towards GenAI tools, such as fear, frustration, lack
of satisfaction, viewing them as unnecessary, distrust, etc. In Zhu et al. (2024)’s study,
students reported negative experiences, considering ChatGPT interaction less satisfactory.
Yang et al. (2024) found that many students’ experiences of satisfaction during the initial
phase of the course changed as the course progressed. Ahmed et al. (2024) identified that
some faculty members expressed concerns about the limitations of ChatGPT in handling
edge cases and adapting to student needs.
b) Reluctance to Continue Using GenAI: Of the 99 studies, only 16 studies showed
that students and teachers expressed hesitancy about potentially using GenAI in the
future or recommending it to others. For example, 5 of 25 students who came from
three courses aimed at providing pre-service teachers with practical training on teaching
skills said that they might not continue to use GenAI to support teaching in the future
(J. Lu et al., 2024). Taiye et al. (2024) reported two kinds of negative reactions to GenAI
that could limit the willingness of students to use it: (i) the fear that they would be
punished and caught transgressing and (ii) a hesitancy to use it if it took away from the
authentic expression of their ideas. Yang et al. (2024) illuminate how students’ engagement
with AI impacts the resultant experience. Results indicate it is largely determined by
students’ perceptions of AI’s effectiveness in fulfilling their learning needs. Curiously,
in some cases, GenAI tools, while generally liked and seen as potentially improving the
quality of assignments, were not very likely to be used for future tasks. For example,
with regard to video-producing AI, while the respondents were neutral to satisfied with
Fliki’s functionalities, it seemed unlikely that they would employ it for future multimedia
projects. A respondent who was “not at all likely” to use the tool for enhancing their future
presentations was also “moderately” satisfied with the functionalities of the text-to-video
converter (Brzezinska, 2024).
3.2.3. Neutral Responses
Regarding GenAI being used in the classroom, 16 of 99 studies expressed neutral
responses. In Pantazatos et al. (2024)’s study, regarding the helpfulness in solving course-
work problems, there were also two neutral responses. Escalante et al. (2023) revealed
a near-even split in preference for GenAI-generated or human-created feedback, with
clear advantages to both forms of feedback apparent from the data. Maher et al. (2023)
discovered that participants who were more careful in their use of ChatGPT were likely to
seek additional support and verify the accuracy of the generated code (Pham et al., 2023).
3.3. RQ2: How Does the Use of GenAI for Teaching and Learning Affect Students’ and Teachers’
Attitudes in Higher Education Classroom Settings?
In this systematic review study, we define attitude as a series of evaluations of GenAI
tools, which are assumed to be derived from emotions, specific beliefs, and behavior
intentions associated with those GenAI tools. The various attitudes toward GenAI used in
classroom settings can be grouped into several distinct categories, as shown in Table 3.


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
7 of 25
Table 3. Attitudes with GenAI used for learning and teaching practice.
Theme
Sub-Theme
Example
Number of
Studies
Positive
attitudes
Enabling students to adopt
an entirely new and
integrated approach to
professional learning
Typical TSs in agreement with the benefits arising from the
inclusion of ChatGPT in the educational context include
“Being highly optimistic about ChatGPT and this activity
of creating short stories, I believe it can be utilized to
compose short stories based on historical events or
scientific facts, which can be incredibly engaging for
interdisciplinary work in the classroom” (Prof_13f) and “I
thought ChatGPT was highly effective in creating
meaningful texts” (Prof_2f). (Fialho et al., 2024)
80
Reshaping students’ study
methods and habits
Some students identified potential benefits of technologies
such as ChatGPT. In written comments, some likened it to
a tutor or a professor who was constantly available and
who could quickly explain concepts in new and helpful
ways. (West et al., 2023)
55
Bridging classroom
learning to
real-world needs
“I really appreciated the ChatGPT activity because it
allowed me to practice applying sampling techniques to
real-life scenarios. It helped me feel more confident in my
understanding of the material”. (participant 4)
(Essel et al., 2024)
18
Motivating teachers to
update their
teaching methods
The Business Game category summarizes students’
evaluations and reflections on the effectiveness of the
simulated business game as a learning method. This
category includes insights into the dynamics of the game,
the role of interaction with ChatGPT, and the overall
evaluation of the simulation as a pedagogical tool.
Students described the simulation as an innovative and
interactive way to understand complex cloud migration
concepts and processes. (Stampfl et al., 2024)
30
Encouraging teachers to
maximize work efficiency
The most frequently mentioned functions of GenAI tools
were generating teaching and learning materials, checking
assignments, correcting grammar mistakes, and designing
lesson plans. They maintained that these functions of
GenAI tools could help them “reduce the workload”,
“increase efficiency”, “brainstorm ideas”, and “refresh
thoughts”. (Moorhouse et al., 2024)
8
Concerns
The low quality of
generated content
Students felt that the knowledge of the Chat Generative
Pre-Trained Transformer is limited and not very reliable.
Images and videos were not available on the given topic on
ChatGPT; hence, students used Google and other internet
applications to search for answers. (Bhatia et al., 2024)
44
The quality of generated
content depends on
various factors
An interview extract exemplified the participants’
experiences. “ChatGPT pointed out that the scope of my
prompt was too broad. In response, I rephrased the prompt
and focused on one aspect at a time. As a result, ChatGPT
provided me with relevant information and guidance,
which helped me form ideas and arguments effectively”.
The participants noticed that increased interaction with
ChatGPT led to high-quality feedback. (Tam, 2025)
34


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
8 of 25
Table 3. Cont.
Theme
Sub-Theme
Example
Number of
Studies
Concerns
Ethical issues
For RQ2 (What are the pedagogical and technological
outcomes of using generative AI to reflect on the nursing
profession?), the themes identified included the following:
(1) self-reflection on students’ moral and professional
identity development, (2) strange and inaccurate images,
and (3) biases/stereotypes of nurses not based on
contemporary realities. (Reed et al., 2023)
23
Over-reliance
Concerns included AI’s impact on privacy, ethics,
developer education, and reliability. Over-reliance on AI
possibly hindering skill development (P3) and AI code’s
reliability (P7) were other concerns. (Waseem et al., 2024)
34
Mixed
attitudes
--
Thus, as a course designer (echoing Yaron’s experience
above), Yasemin does not think ChatGPT is likely to render
educators or education designers obsolete. ChatGPT is a
convenient tool for educators requiring unit outline
generation; however, without the input of an experienced
educator or education designer, it does not currently
appear to have the capacity to create a learning unit on its
own. (Meron & Araci, 2023)
30
3.3.1. Positive Attitudes
a) Enabling students to adopt an entirely new and integrated approach to professional
learning: The majority of studies (80 of 99) indicated that students and teachers reported
advantages of GenAI utilization in HE classroom settings, including enhancing their un-
derstanding of the subject, deepening their understanding of specialized knowledge, and
improving the learning efficacy of the subject matter. For example, Kosar et al. (2024)
suggested that the successful integration of ChatGPT as a teaching aid can provide novel in-
sight into creative writing instruction. Ruff et al. (2024) found that upper-division students
use GenAI to generate and revise texts for chemistry writing, resulting in fewer gram-
matical errors, fewer extremely short and very long sentences, and improved readability.
According to Arcia (2024)’s study, GenAI tools are beneficial for students in science and en-
gineering education to expand their creative horizons, improve their technical proficiency,
and enhance the acquisition of knowledge.
b) Reshaping students’ study methods and habits: This theme emphasizes the attitudes
towards GenAI suggesting that it altered study habits and learning modes in numerous
ways, as evidenced by the 55 studies related to this topic. As GenAI tools can provide
immediate feedback, save time and effort in research and projects, facilitate collaborative
learning, and support many other study approaches, the successful integration of GenAI as
a teaching aid offers promising opportunities for providing personalized support for the
reconstruction of learning habits and methods. For example, GenAI was found to have the
capability to test students’ basic knowledge (Pesovski et al., 2024). As one student noted,
AI tools offered a direct, focused approach which could alleviate their feeling of being
overwhelmed by information. Some students noted that utilizing AI in research has greatly
accelerated some traditionally lengthy parts of the process, which has allowed them more
time for deeper analysis and critical thinking. (Aure & Cuenca, 2024).
c) Bridging classroom learning to real-world needs: In this review, 18 of 99 studies
indicated that the integration of GenAI into university classrooms can bridge skill gaps
between educational settings and workplace needs. This is particularly helpful in the


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
9 of 25
context that employers often do not adopt effective training practices given concerns
about the associated costs. GenAI tools can overcome these barriers by offering learning
experiences for future professional development. For instance, Uddin et al. (2023) indicated
that ChatGPT can serve as a cost-effective learning and training tool for students and
possibly for working professionals in the context of occupational safety.
d) Motivating teachers to update their teaching methods: Thirty studies suggest that
GenAI tools like ChatGPT can serve as effective educational and training tools for teachers
at universities to improve their teaching methods. In Ahmed et al. (2024)’s study, the
faculty questionnaire showed general faculty agreement that the AI assistant demonstrated
strengths in certain areas, including accuracy of programming concepts, completeness of
explanations, use of effective teaching strategies, and encouraging problem-solving.
e) Encouraging teachers to maximize work efficiency: Eight studies revealed that
incorporating GenAI into classroom settings can benefit the teaching process significantly,
which not only reduces the burden on teachers, but also allows teachers to spend more
time on more personalized teaching and guidance. For instance, according to Ambikairajah
et al. (2024), the teaching staff felt that students often used ChatGPT in the class as a
personal tutor, which allowed them to allocate their time more efficiently, focusing on more
difficult questions.From the perspective of students, ChatGPT enabled them to ask teachers
fewer questions directly, so teachers could focus on individuals with difficulties instead of
wasting time on questions.
3.3.2. Concerns
a) The low quality of generated content: Among the 99 studies, 44 studies were
concerned about the low quality of the generated content. These concerns about GenAI
included giving inaccurate information and providing vague advice. For instance, students
using ChatGPT for their learning assignment confirmed that some information was out-
dated, significant content was missing, and part of the answer was occasionally incorrect
(Kavadella et al., 2024). Another notable problem is the lack of depth, relevance, and
creativity. For instance, participants pointed out that ChatGPT often generated responses
failing to contain the needed details. As the participants felt that the innovation of the
ideas provided by ChatGPT did not meet their expectations, they still needed to design
more innovative situations to better fit the purposes of classroom teaching and learning
(J. Lu et al., 2024). A further challenge was validating the source of the information (Guo &
Lee, 2023). Kavadella et al. (2024) confirmed that links to references were nonexistent or
not working.
b) The quality of generated content depends on various factors: Among the 99 studies,
34 studies focus on the fact that the quality of generated content is dependent on a variety
of elements, including the precision and clarity of users’ prompts and the effectiveness of
scholarly dialogues. Pham et al. (2023) indicated that GenAI results can vary depending
on the prompts or wording used as input. This variability can lead to inconsistent or
unexpected answers. Meron and Araci (2023) target the weakness of ChatGPT’s overly
generic text, indicating that it requires much more human prompting, cajoling, and manual
editing to produce the desired results. Banavar et al. (2023) indicated that when deployed
in classrooms, or by students, users need to be educated about ChatGPT and similar GenAI
tools on the following aspects: (1) The quality of the prompts drives the quality of the
results. (2) Solutions and code snippets provided by ChatGPT are usually incorrect and
need to be examined before use.
c) Ethical issues: Of the 99 studies, 23 studies addressed ethical issues related to
GenAI-generated content, such as the authenticity of generated content, risk of plagia-
rism, and responsible use of generated content. With the aim of addressing ethical issues


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
10 of 25
in pedagogical practice, it is recommended that content generated by GenAI in higher
education classrooms be carefully integrated. In Aure and Cuenca (2024)’s study, one
student expressed concern about potentially crossing ethical boundaries and compromising
academic integrity, restraining him/her from exploring the use of GenAI tools. Ruff et al.
(2024) found that only one of the students who used ChatGPT formally acknowledged it in
an Acknowledgments section, despite all being told that this was the formal standard at
the start of the semester. Regarding the responsible use of GenAI, Šedlbauer et al. (2024)
highlighted the potential benefits of AI for societal benefit, but these were sometimes tem-
pered by concerns. One student expressed concerns about its influence on the degradation
of human culture and the deepening of social inequality in the world.
d) Over-reliance: Another concern is the significant drawbacks of users’ over-reliance
on GenAI, as illustrated in 34 studies. In Ambikairajah et al. (2024)’s study, even when
ChatGPT provided incorrect answers, a number of students accepted them without re-
alizing they were incorrect, and failed to use traditional classroom methods to acquire
knowledge, such as referencing books, tutorials, educational materials, or websites. Some
studies have pointed out that when students lack basic knowledge of a subject and the
ability to make comprehensive judgments, they will become over-dependent, leading to
problems (Vadaparty et al., 2024; Ambikairajah et al., 2024). Aure and Cuenca (2024) found
that students are apprehensive about the potential consequences of over-reliance on GenAI,
fearing it could potentially distort or negatively impact the quality of their work and lead
to reduced creativity and knowledge.
3.3.3. Mixed Attitudes
Of the 99 studies, 30 studies reported mixed attitudes towards GenAI being used in HE
classrooms. Firstly, while recognizing the advantages of GenAI, students and teachers also
raised the unsatisfactory aspects of GenAI. For instance, in Šedlbauer et al. (2024)’s study,
teachers indicated the quality of the essays had improved compared with the previous
years. When the essays were written without the aid of GenAI, they were more informative
and context-providing, with fewer stylistic and grammar flaws, but the number of personal
comments and observations decreased. Secondly, students and teachers felt that GenAI
could be used as a teaching aid, but not as a substitute for the teacher’s role. For instance,
Farah et al. (2023) created a chatbot interface and conducted a case study comprising
a controlled experiment with 26 university software engineering students. One student
noted that while the interactivity and response time provided by the chatbot were positive,
the chatbot would never replace the educator. Finally, students and teachers responded
that although they allowed GenAI to generate the content, they adjusted and improved it
according to their own needs (Q. Lu et al., 2024).
3.4. RQ3: How Does the Use of GenAI for Teaching and Learning Affect Students’ and Teachers’
Behaviors in Higher Education Classroom Settings?
In this systematic review study, we define behavior as the reactions to GenAI in terms
of both observable activities and the underlying mental process that drives actions. The
various learning and teaching behaviors of students and teachers are shown in Table 4.
3.4.1. Promoting Student Learning Behaviors in Multiple Dimensions
a) Promoting learning behaviors in the cognitive processing dimension: Based on
the 99 studies, 52 demonstrated that GenAI impacts learning behaviors in the cognitive
processing dimension.


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
11 of 25
Table 4. Behaviors with GenAI used for learning and teaching practice.
Theme
Sub-Theme
Examples
Number of
Studies
Promoting student
learning behaviors in
multiple dimensions
Promoting learning
behaviors in the cognitive
processing dimension (e.g.,
meta-cognition, critical
thinking, creative thinking,
decision-making,
problem-solving)
Students in the experiment group (EG) used
ChatGPT for in-class tasks, while students in
the control group (CG) used traditional
databases and search engines. Compared to the
CG, the EG demonstrated a significant increase
in critical thinking, reflective skepticism, and
critical openness compared to the CG.
(Essel et al., 2024)
52
Promoting learning
behaviors in the
self-management
dimension (e.g.,
self-regulation, self-efficacy,
motivation)
Regarding the utilization of ChatGPT, students
reported a rise in their usage of ChatGPT to
boost their self-efficacy in critical thinking
(from 46% to 67%, p = 0.31) and would
recommend using ChatGPT as a tool for others
to enhance their critical thinking skills (from
72% to 88%, p = 0.39). (Guo & Lee, 2023)
31
Promoting learning
behaviors in the social
interaction dimension
(e.g., engagement,
collaborative skills)
In addition, peer collaboration became evident
as students enjoyed discussing and exploring
the functionalities of ChatGPT together. “This
time made me think about the best way to
practice English. Usually I just followed what
my teacher said, but now I can talk to my
friends and make my own plan”.
(Vadaparty et al., 2024)
39
Enabling teachers to
optimize teaching
behaviors
Guiding teachers in
innovating their teaching
methods
Specifically, participants showed a deeper
understanding and more detailed elaboration
when using GenAI tools to facilitate the
planning process. There was a salient change
from considering GenAI as a direct lesson plan
generator to using it to refine existing plans
and create classroom activities. The shift might
be attributed to the instructor’s explicit
guidance on using GenAI to refine lesson plans,
coupled with targeted assignment tasks that
encouraged such an application.
(Moorhouse et al., 2024)
20
Supporting teachers in
enhancing their
assessment practices
After using ChatGPT-4 for preliminary
marking, the average marking time for each
poetry assignment was reduced from 30 min to
10 min. This change greatly improved teaching
efficiency. (X. Li et al., 2024)
10
Inconsistent task
behavior
performance
Generative AI promotes
the task behavior
performance
In the quantitative analysis part, we saw a
skew toward higher points for students who
were actively using the part of the LMS with
AI-generated content. (Pesovski et al., 2024)
59
Generative AI does not
significantly promote the
task behavior performance
Table 4 shows the results of both groups’
performance in lab work. The average lab work
success of Group I, which used ChatGPT, was
65.27%, whilst the average score of Group II
(no ChatGPT) was only slightly better,
at 66.72%. (Kosar et al., 2024)
25


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
12 of 25
Critical thinking. GenAI may offer students feedback and guidance, which can help
them develop a deeper understanding of the topic and enhance their critical thinking
skills. For instance, a significant improvement in critical thinking was observed in the
self-assessment of these skills following the intervention, which was the integration of a
GenAI-based virtual assistant in a university-level network management course (Pantazatos
et al., 2024). For example, GCLA systematically offers hints rather than outright solutions,
prompting students to refine their reasoning to reach the correct conclusion (H.-Y. Lee
et al., 2024). One possible justification is that GenAI enhances critical thinking because they
provide students with a more personalized learning experience, providing a different or
broader perspective on the problem, adjusting the difficulty level and pace of instruction to
meet students’ individual needs and learning styles (Alhammad, 2024).
Creative thinking. The potential of GenAI technologies in supporting student’s creativ-
ity has caught the attention of educators and students. The use of ChatGPT for university
in-class activities is found to contribute to the development of students’ creative thinking
abilities. (Essel et al., 2024). For instance, R. Chen and Zhao (2024) indicate that the intro-
duction of ChatGPT not only enriches the teaching methods of creative writing but also
significantly enhances students’ academic expression and innovative thinking. H.-Y. Lee
et al. (2024) found that Guidance-based ChatGPT-assisted Learning Aid (GCLA) has the
potential to boost creative outcomes, which is in agreement with research advocating for
brainstorming and innovative thinking in higher education, unlike ChatGPT’s more deter-
ministic approach. By creating a learning environment in which students are encouraged
to think divergently, they can demonstrate creative solutions within creative ideas.
Decision-making. It has been observed that GenAI can provide instant feedback and
personalized support to higher education learners, which enables them to make better deci-
sions. As indicated by the students, ChatGPT provides comprehensive information quickly,
which is helpful in assisting with the decision-making process. (Šedlbauer et al., 2024).
Problem-solving skills. GenAI has shown considerable promise in fostering problem-
solving skills in the higher education context. For instance, high-achieving students demon-
strated superior problem-solving abilities compared to their low-achieving peers, likely
due to several factors (M.-S. Chen et al., 2024). Pantazatos et al. (2024) explore how a GenAI-
based virtual assistant can be integrated into network management courses at universities.
It was found that participants’ problem-solving skills improved statistically significantly
following the intervention.
Meta-cognition. In addition to fostering the above learning behaviors, generative
tools can also foster students’ meta-cognition. For instance, despite some technical and
language challenges that surfaced, as well as skepticism from a small number of learners,
post-training interviews indicated a shift towards improved metacognitive awareness and
autonomous learning (Van Horn, 2024). The correlation between GenAI and classroom
learning has been examined in some studies to explore potential avenues for metacognitive
awareness. As soon as a problem is addressed, students are asked to reflect on their problem-
solving process, formulate a critique in their own words, and report their individual
observations and perceptions.
b) Enhancing learning behaviors in the self-management dimension: Thirty-one stud-
ies have shown that GenAI affects learning behavior in the self-management dimension.
Self-efficacy. Some studies show that students who engaged in the course using GenAI
tools developed more positive learning behaviors, such as general self-efficacy and self-
efficacy in specific areas. J. Lu et al. (2024) examined how general self-efficacy changes
before and after GenAI use. After a four-week experiment, pre-service teachers in both the
experimental group that utilized ChatGPT for assisted teaching and the control group that
did not use ChatGPT for assistance both significantly improved their self-efficacy. Regard-


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
13 of 25
ing specific self-efficacy, Hu et al. (2024) revealed that the experimental groups, particularly
Group A (using the Companion System with a strategic tool for structuring and visualizing
information), significantly outperformed the control group in boosting information literacy
self-efficacy. The study introduced a novel approach to help participants increase their
ethical self-efficacy and ethical decision-making, and the result demonstrated significant
improvements in three crucial areas of ethical development: ethical self-efficacy, ethical
decision-making confidence, and decision conflicts (Hu, 2024a).
Self-regulated learning behavior. GenAI tools have emerged as a promising tool to
reshape self-regulated learning experiences, poised to redefine autonomous learning. Tam
(2025) suggested that ChatGPT feedback quality is influenced by personal goals, learners’
self-regulation writing strategies, and multilingual capability. Younis (2024) found that
self-regulation levels were high among these three online ChatGPT groups. Furthermore,
learning in peer and group environments developed self-regulation skills more effectively
than learning independently. Those findings offer potential for exploring ways to leverage
creative AI tools to facilitate students’ self-regulating learning strategies and behaviors.
Learning motivation. GenAI has been recognized as contributing to improved learning
motivation. H.-Y. Lee et al. (2024) noted that traditional GenAI was slightly superior
in terms of intrinsic and extrinsic motivation increases, particularly in higher education
contexts. W. S. Wang et al. (2024) aimed to explore the impact of GPT feedback in a VR
learning environment. The results showed that, compared to the control group receiving
traditional feedback, the experimental group using GPT feedback exhibited significantly
greater improvements in learning motivation. However, the results were not consistent
with extrinsic motivation. H. Li (2023) analyzed the extrinsic motivation ratings of the two
groups, and the results did not indicate a significant difference.
c) Promoting learning behaviors in the social interaction dimension: According to
39 of the 99 studies, GenAI impacts learning behaviors in the social interaction dimension.
Engagement.
Active engagement practices are seen as a valuable tool to sup-
port the “learning-by-doing” pedagogy, which is vital in higher learning environments
(H.-Y. Lee et al., 2024). This was evidenced by the students’ positive reception and the
notable improvement in learning retention and engagement (Ramos & Condotta, 2024).
H.-Y. Lee et al. (2024) introduced the GCLA, which has facilitated more effective learning
experiences in blended learning environments. It has also ensured that students take an
active part in their educational journey.
Collaborative skills. Collaborative skills to maintain a relationship with others refer to
the social aspects of learning, which are considered to be necessary for a learning envi-
ronment. Ramos and Condotta (2024) suggested that participants experienced increased
engagement, better teamwork dynamics, and enhanced collaboration. Based on the find-
ings, students expressed optimism about ChatGPT’s effectiveness in enhancing classroom
engagement, fostering collaboration, and fostering active participation (Van Horn, 2024).
3.4.2. Facilitating Teachers to Optimize Teaching Behaviors
a) Guiding teachers in innovating teaching methods: Among the 99 studies, 20 studies
demonstrated that GenAI complements teachers’ teaching behaviors in several ways. These
studies aim to examine GenAI’s effects on supporting students’ or pre-service teachers’
pedagogy, including their ability to design and prepare classes. For instance, J. Lu et al.
(2024) conducted a study aiming to offer practical training in teaching skills, encompassing
lesson preparation, classroom instruction, and post-class analysis to third-year pre-service
teachers. The experimental group utilized ChatGPT to assist with teaching, whereas the
control group did not employ ChatGPT for support. Ramos and Condotta (2024) conducted
an 8-week quasi-randomized study. The experimental group members participated in small-


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
14 of 25
group collaborative learning with ChatGPT assistance, while the control group members
engaged in traditional collaborative learning. A total of 36 sophomore pre-service teachers
were assigned to create teaching aids and conduct simulated instructional sessions.
b) Supporting teachers in enhancing assessment practices: Given the prominence of
GenAI generators like ChatGPT, which are noted for their simplicity and accessibility, out
of the 99 studies, 10 studies examined how GenAI tools complement teacher assessment,
and the overall effectiveness of this combined approach. For instance, by shedding light on
the synergy between ChatGPT and teacher assessments, Q. Lu et al. (2024) uncovered three
ways in which ChatGPT complements teacher assessment, benefiting students at various
writing proficiency levels: (1) fostering deeper comprehension of teacher assessments
among students, (2) encouraging students to make judgments regarding feedback, and
(3) promoting independent thinking about revisions.
3.4.3. The Task Behavior Performance Is Unstable
a) Generative AI promotes the task behavior performance: Among the 99 studies,
59 studies found that participants in groups that used GenAI performed better in the
experiments or tasks studied than those in groups that did not use GenAI or those using tra-
ditional pedagogical methods. These studies reveal that the use of GenAI in the classroom
positively affects students’ or teachers’ learning and teaching behaviors.
b) Generative AI does not promote task behavior performance: Among the 99 studies,
25 studies found inconsistent findings compared with previous studies. For instance, Avello-
Martínez et al. (2024) conducted pre- and post-tests to assess changes in digital storytelling
skills and cognitive load, which revealed no significant improvement in digital storytelling
skills for the experimental group compared to the control group. Kosar et al. (2024) showed
that students’ performance was not influenced by ChatGPT usage (no statistical significance
between groups), nor were the grading results of practical assignments and midterm exams
affected. Jošt et al. (2024) suggested that students who used LLMs more frequently for code
generation received a lower final grade. One study found that students trusted human
teachers more than computers and preferred dialogue with them (Zhang et al., 2024).
4. Discussions
From initial entries in the selected database, 99 studies met the inclusion criteria and
were investigated in this systematic review. We aimed to determine the current state of
research on students’ and teachers’ responses, attitudes, and behaviors toward GenAI
usage in higher education.
As a result of our study, this review revealed a range of study responses of students
and teachers towards the use of GenAI in HE classroom teaching and learning (see Table 2).
These responses can be classified into three main categories: positive responses, negative
responses, and neutral responses. The majority of studies (73 out of 99) in this review over-
whelmingly reflected positive emotional responses (e.g., enthusiastic, excited, enjoyable) to
GenAI usage in HE classroom settings. It is noteworthy that students and teachers in some
studies, although their emotions were on the positive side, indicated that their willingness
to use GenAI was low or even that they had no intention of continuing to use GenAI in the
future. The reason for this seemingly inconsistent result may be due to the fact that some of
these studies did not involve an investigation of willingness to use. However, willingness
to use is a prerequisite for actually using GenAI and discovering its shortcomings and
potential. This warrants further exploration of the factors that influence it in the future.
Three types of attitudes about GenAI used for learning and teaching practices emerged
from certain studies (see Table 3), including positive attitudes, concerns, and mixed atti-
tudes. From a positive perspective, GenAI can benefit students’ professional learning and


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
15 of 25
study habits. But this systematic review found that relatively few studies have explored
teachers’ attitudes toward GenAI compared to considering students’ attitudes. How can
teachers leverage the benefits of GenAI in higher education classrooms? How can teachers
better connect classroom learning to real-world needs? Responding to these questions
requires more attention to the integration of GenAI into teaching methods and educational
assessment in future research. Several concerns have been raised about GenAI usage in HE
classroom settings. Studies concerned with the quality of generated content and its influ-
encing factors, especially prompts, dominate. But as the problem of over-reliance is taken
seriously, the number of studies in this systematic review study that raise concerns about
ethical issues is still relatively small, and much smaller than the number of studies express-
ing positive attitudes toward GenAI. Therefore, in a context where generative technologies
are still evolving, universities urgently need to invest in research and formulate policies
surrounding ethical issues. Finally, mixed attitudes towards GenAI usage in HE classroom
settings appear to be rational. For example, they agree that GenAI has advantages that
traditional teaching methods and tools do not have, but also, they suggest that learners and
educators need to weigh both the advantages and disadvantages of GenAI and improve
the use of the generated content according to real learning and teaching needs.
Due to its significant features of interaction and dialogue, GenAI can also act as a
“pedagogical catalyst” to support and empower the behaviors of students and teachers (see
Table 4). In addition to promoting students’ learning behavior in cognitive processing, self-
management, and social interaction dimensions, GenAI usage is also evidenced to have a
positive impact on innovating teachers’ teaching methods and assessment practices. However,
the use of GenAI in HE classroom settings does not always result in positive teaching and
learning outcomes. Taking critical thinking-oriented behavior as an example, in some studies,
students’ critical thinking-oriented behavior was significantly increased by GenAI usage,
while in others, students reported that GenAI instead hindered their critical thinking growth.
One possible illustration of the significance of GenAI in enhancing critical thinking-oriented
behaviors is that it offers students the possibility to engage in dialogue with GenAI, fostering
a discussion-based learning environment that enables students to develop robust critical
thinking skills. However, when users lack basic subject matter knowledge and the ability to
judge, they can rely uncritically and excessively on generated content, which hinders their
creative behaviors and may even cause them to absorb misleading information.
Overall, this review contributes to the growing body of knowledge about critical
areas of focus on the impact of GenAI potential use on students’ responses, attitudes, and
behaviors across various disciplines. In practice, the results benefit stakeholders and the
research community by enabling the use of current GenAI tools for learning and teaching.
5. Conclusions
This systematic literature review is a valid foundation for future studies. It is im-
perative to advocate for a robust body of empirical research examining the multifaceted
impact of GenAI on students’ and teachers’ responses, attitudes, and behaviors from an
interdisciplinary and multidimensional standpoint.
It is worth stating that this paper reviews the literature in the English language, meaning
significant research in other languages was left out. This limitation means our study might
have missed non-English GenAI topic trends. To enhance inclusivity, it is crucial to expand
representation across journals, particularly non-English publications. Additionally, restricting
the search term to “ChatGPT” could have inherent biases, limiting the inclusion of more
literature related to other generative AI tools. Future research should aim to include more
diverse GenAI tools and explore the impacts of their application in higher education teaching
and learning to enhance the robustness and reliability of the findings.


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
16 of 25
A common theme among these studies is integrating generative AI into curriculum
and instruction, emphasizing the role of GenAI in facilitating students’ learning through
deeply personalized learning experiences, as well as exploring GenAI’s potential to assist
teachers with course design, assessment of learning, and other pedagogical behaviors. The
findings suggest several avenues for future research.
•
As can be seen from the results, GenAI serves as “scaffolding” to guide, support, and
empower students and teachers’ learning activities and teaching processes. As edu-
cation is about serving life and living, future research should focus on the autonomy
and creativity of students and teachers when interacting with GenAI tools.
•
Most of the included studies mentioned responses, attitudes, and behaviors about
GenAI from the perspective of students (as can be seen in Tables 2–4). For future re-
search, it would be worthwhile to further study this topic from a teacher’s perspective.
For instance, what factors influence teachers’ willingness to use GenAI for innovating
their teaching method? How do teachers develop syllabi for GenAI courses? And how
do teachers increase their own GenAI literacy?
•
It is revealed that many of the selected studies (46.5%) are mixed-methods research
articles. Most of them are based on quasi-experimental research, questionnaires,
interviews, textual analysis, and other methods. It is imperative that more interdisci-
plinary studies are conducted in the future, including integrating psychological and
neuroscientific research methods, to detect changes in the psychological state, cogni-
tive processing process, and brain activation state of individuals during generative
AI–human interactive teaching in real time and simultaneously.
•
Future research should pay more attention to students’ and teachers’ negative re-
sponses and concerns about GenAI, which are less explored compared to positive
responses and attitudes in this systematic review (as can be seen in Tables 2 and 3). In
order to produce positive outcomes for students and educators in the age of artificial
intelligence, it is considered that universities should take the initiative to facilitate the
rational and ethical use of GenAI tools by emphasizing the humanistic and emotional
dimensions of GenAI, not only to leverage the “advantage” of GenAI but also to
promote the “goodness” of the technology.
Our systematic review reflects the responses, attitudes, and behaviors of students and
teachers about GenAI for learning and teaching in HE classrooms. It also underscores the
critical need for further research to overcome GenAI integration barriers. By addressing
these issues and leveraging the full potential of GenAI, universities can reshape learning
modes and teaching philosophies, and push the boundaries of disciplinary knowledge.
Author Contributions: M.L. conceived the research, designed the study, secured funding, and
reviewed and edited the manuscript. F.W. developed the study materials, screened and analyzed
the data, and wrote the manuscript including the tables and figures. Y.D. collected, screened, and
analyzed the data. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received funding by the National Natural Science Foundation of China
(grant number: 62277034), Science and Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipality (STCSM),
Shanghai “Science and Technology Innovation Action Plan” (24692112600).
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Data are contained within the article.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
17 of 25
Appendix A
Table A1. All code relevant to the articles are included.
Articles
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.2.1
3.2.2
3.2.3
3.3.1
3.3.2
3.3.3
3.4.1
3.4.2
3.4.3
a)
b)
a)
b)
/
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
a)
b)
c)
d)
/
a)
b)
c)
a)
b)
a)
b)
(King et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Yang et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Picciano, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Haindl & Weinberger, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(McGuire et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Meron & Araci, 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Q. Lu et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Moorhouse et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Arcia, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Pham et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(French et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Huesca et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Ramos & Condotta, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(M. Wang et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
(West et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(H.-Y. Lee et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
(Kosar et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(H. Li, 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Kucuk, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Escalante et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
(Jošt et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Guo & Lee, 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Younis, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Uddin et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Bhatia et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Kharrufa & Johnson, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Randall et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
18 of 25
Table A1. Cont.
Articles
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.2.1
3.2.2
3.2.3
3.3.1
3.3.2
3.3.3
3.4.1
3.4.2
3.4.3
a)
b)
a)
b)
/
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
a)
b)
c)
d)
/
a)
b)
c)
a)
b)
a)
b)
(Zhou & Kim, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
(Ji et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
(Hu et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Kavadella et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Wieser et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(González-Rico & Lluch Sintes, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Nguyen et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Beltozar-Clemente & Díaz-Vega, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(George-Reyes et al., 2024)
1
1
1
(Tsai et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Karimova et al., 2025) *
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Saritepeci & Yildiz Durak, 2024)
1
1
1
(Exintaris et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Pyo, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Pesovski et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Farah et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(W. S. Wang et al., 2024) *
1
1
1
1
1
(Vadaparty et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Ruff et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Kumar et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Chirciu & Wren, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Johnson et al., 2024a)
1
1
1
(Van Horn, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Taiye et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Essel et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Baalsrud Hauge & Jeong, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Wiboolyasarin et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Dou, 2024)
1
1
1
(Zhu et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Alhammad, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
19 of 25
Table A1. Cont.
Articles
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.2.1
3.2.2
3.2.3
3.3.1
3.3.2
3.3.3
3.4.1
3.4.2
3.4.3
a)
b)
a)
b)
/
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
a)
b)
c)
d)
/
a)
b)
c)
a)
b)
a)
b)
(Hu, 2024a)
1
1
1
(Martins Ferreira, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Kétyi et al., 2025) *
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Zhang et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
(M.-S. Chen et al., 2024)
1
1
1
(Tam, 2025) *
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Despain, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Ambikairajah et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Pantazatos et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Tuesta Durango et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
(Zdravkova et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Pérez-Colado et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Stampfl et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Han et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Aure & Cuenca, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Brzezinska, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Avello-Martínez et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(R. Chen & Zhao, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
(X. Li et al., 2024)
1
1
1
(Wahba et al., 2024)
1
(Ahmed et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Hu, 2024b)
1
1
1
1
(Buchem et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
(Waseem et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Shaer & Cooper, 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Chang et al., 2024)
1
1
(Fialho et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Garvey & Patrick, 2023)
1
1
1
(M.-H. Lee & Kim, 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
20 of 25
Table A1. Cont.
Articles
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.2.1
3.2.2
3.2.3
3.3.1
3.3.2
3.3.3
3.4.1
3.4.2
3.4.3
a)
b)
a)
b)
/
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
a)
b)
c)
d)
/
a)
b)
c)
a)
b)
a)
b)
(Qureshi, 2023)
1
1
1
1
(Zhang et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
(Banavar et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Reed et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Maher et al., 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Hajj & Sah, 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Sudirman & Rahmatillah, 2023)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Hwang & Nurtantyana, 2022)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(J. Lu et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Neyem et al., 2024)
1
1
(Kim et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Šedlbauer et al., 2024)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
(Johnson et al., 2024b)
1
Total
73
32
46
16
16
80
55
18
30
8
44
34
23
34
30
52
31
39
20
10
59
25
Note. In-text citations marked with an asterisk (*) indicate that the open access version was published in 2024.


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
21 of 25
References
Ahmed, Z., Shanto, S. S., & Jony, A. I. (2024). Potentiality of generative AI tools in higher education: Evaluating ChatGPT’s viability as
a teaching assistant for introductory programming courses. STEM Education, 4(3), 165–182. [CrossRef]
Alhammad, A. I. (2024). The impact of ChatGPT in developing Saudi EFL learners’ literature appreciation. World Journal of English
Language, 14(2), 331. [CrossRef]
Ambikairajah, E., Sirojan, T., Thiruvaran, T., & Set, V. (2024, May 8–11). ChatGPT in the classroom: A shift in engineering design education.
2024 IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference (EDUCON) (pp. 1–5), Kos Island, Greece. [CrossRef]
Anderson, E. (2025). The growing demand for AI specialists in 2025. Available online: https://rubii.com/blog/the-growing-demand-for
-ai-specialists-this-2025 (accessed on 18 February 2025).
Arcia, A. (2024). Incorporation of generative AI in an introductory nursing informatics course. In G. Strudwick, N. R. Hardiker, G.
Rees, R. Cook, & Y. J. Lee (Eds.), Studies in health technology and informatics. IOS Press. [CrossRef]
Aure, P. A., & Cuenca, O. (2024). Fostering social-emotional learning through human-centered use of generative AI in business research
education: An insider case study. Journal of Research in Innovative Teaching & Learning, 17(2), 168–181. [CrossRef]
Avello-Martínez, R., Gajderowicz, T., & Gómez-Rodríguez, V. G. (2024). Is ChatGPT helpful for graduate students in acquiring
knowledge about digital storytelling and reducing their cognitive load? An experiment. Revista de Educación a Distancia (RED),
24(78), 8. [CrossRef]
Baalsrud Hauge, J., & Jeong, Y. (2024). Does the improvement in AI tools necessitate a different approach to engineering education? In
J. Andersson, S. Joshi, L. Malmsköld, & F. Hanning (Eds.), Advances in transdisciplinary engineering. IOS Press. [CrossRef]
Banavar, M. K., Shri, L., Sparks, N., & Cohen, A. (2023, October 18–21). Being brave in a new world: Leveraging ChatGPT in signal processing
classes. 2023 IEEE Frontiers in Education Conference (FIE) (pp. 1–5), College Station, TX, USA. [CrossRef]
Beltozar-Clemente, S., & Díaz-Vega, E. (2024). Physics XP: Integration of ChatGPT and gamification to improve academic performance
and motivation in physics 1 course. International Journal of Engineering Pedagogy (iJEP), 14(6), 82–92. [CrossRef]
Bhatia, A. P., Lambat, A., & Jain, T. (2024). A comparative analysis of conventional and chat-generative pre-trained transformer-assisted
teaching methods in undergraduate dental education. Cureus, 16, e60006. [CrossRef]
Brzezinska, M. (2024). The appeal, efficacy, and ethics of using text- and video-generating AI in the learning process of college students:
Predictive insights and student perceptions. In A. Coman, & S. Vasilache (Eds.), Social computing and social media 16th international
conference, SCSM 2024, held as part of the 26th HCI international conference, HCII 2024 Washington, DC, USA, June 29–July 4 (pp. 23–42).
Proceedings, Part II. Springer.
Buchem, I., Bäcker, N., Trutty, A., Thomas, E., & Dincel, K. (2024, May 2–4). Humour in educational robots: Investigating the effects of
humour in a robot-led scrumban simulation in business education. Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Computer
Supported Education (pp. 314–321), Angers, France. [CrossRef]
Cengage Group. (2024). 2024 graduate employability report preparing students for the GenAI-driven workplace. Available online: https://
cengage.widen.net/s/bmjxxjx9mm/cg-2024-employability-survey-report (accessed on 10 December 2024).
Chang, C. Y., Yang, C. L., Jen, H. J., Ogata, H., & Hwang, G. H. (2024). Facilitating nursing and health education by incorporating
ChatGPT into learning designs. Educational Technology & Society, 27(1), 215–230. [CrossRef]
Chen, M.-S., Hsu, T.-P., Hsu, T.-C., Cheng, Y.-P., Pedaste, M., Bardone, E., & Huang, Y.-M. (2024). GAI-assisted personal discussion
process analysis. In Y.-P. Cheng, M. Pedaste, E. Bardone, & Y.-M. Huang (Eds.), Innovative technologies and learning: 7th international
conference, ICITL 2024, Tartu, Estonia, August 14–16 (pp. 194–204). Proceedings, Part II. Springer.
Chen, R., & Zhao, H. (2024, March 18–20). ChatGPT in creative writing courses in Chinese universities: Application and research. 2024 12th
International Conference on Information and Education Technology (ICIET) (pp. 243–247), Yamaguchi, Japan. [CrossRef]
Chirciu, A. R., & Wren, J. (2024). A balancing act? Opportunities of ChatGPT usage along with teacher instruction in the English as a
second language writing classroom. In M. Simone (Ed.), Critical pedagogy: Empowering education and societal engagement (pp. 39–55).
Nova Science Publishers.
Despain, J. A. (2024, June 18–21). Bridling, taming and riding the AI beast. 10th International Conference on Higher Education Advances
(HEAd’24), Valencia, Spain. [CrossRef]
Dou, W. (2024, June 7–9). The application of generative AI technology in ESP courses for civil engineering majors. 2024 International
Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Digital Technology (ICAIDT) (pp. 144–147), Shenzhen, China. [CrossRef]
Escalante, J., Pack, A., & Barrett, A. (2023). AI-generated feedback on writing: Insights into efficacy and ENL student preference.
International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher Education, 20(1), 57. [CrossRef]
Essel, H. B., Vlachopoulos, D., Essuman, A. B., & Amankwa, J. O. (2024). ChatGPT effects on cognitive skills of undergraduate students:
Receiving instant responses from AI-based conversational large language models (LLMs). Computers and Education: Artificial
Intelligence, 6, 100198. [CrossRef]
Exintaris, B., Karunaratne, N., & Yuriev, E. (2023). Metacognition and critical thinking: Using ChatGPT-generated responses as prompts
for critique in a problem-solving workshop (SMARTCHEMPer). Journal of Chemical Education, 100(8), 2972–2980. [CrossRef]


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
22 of 25
Farah, J. C., Ingram, S., Spaenlehauer, B., Lasne, F. K.-L., & Gillet, D. (2023). Prompting large language models to power educational
chatbots. In H. Xie, C.-L. Lai, W. Chen, G. Xu, & E. Popescu (Eds.), Advances in Web-based learning—ICWL 2023 (Vol. 14409,
pp. 169–188). Springer Nature. [CrossRef]
Fialho, L. M. F., Neves, V. N. S., & Silva Do Nascimento, K. A. (2024). Microcreativity with chat generative pre-trained transformer:
Learnings in virtual space. Journal of Technology and Science Education, 14(1), 95–108. [CrossRef]
French, F., Levi, D., Maczo, C., Simonaityte, A., Triantafyllidis, S., & Varda, G. (2023). Creative use of openAI in education: Case studies
from game development. Multimodal Technologies and Interaction, 7(8), 81. [CrossRef]
Garvey, & Patrick, G. (2023, July 8–13). Artificial intelligence and art: A university curriculum course for undergraduates. 2023 14th IIAI
International Congress on Advanced Applied Informatics (IIAI-AAI) (pp. 667–670), Koriyama, Japan. [CrossRef]
George-Reyes, C. E., Vilhunen, E., Avello-Martínez, R., & López-Caudana, E. (2024). Developing scientific entrepreneurship and
complex thinking skills: Creating narrative scripts using ChatGPT. Frontiers in Education, 9, 1378564. [CrossRef]
González-Rico, P., & Lluch Sintes, M. (2024). Empowering soft skills through artificial intelligence and personalised mentoring.
Education Sciences, 14(7), 699. [CrossRef]
Guo, Y., & Lee, D. (2023). Leveraging ChatGPT for enhancing critical thinking skills. Journal of Chemical Education, 100(12), 4876–4883.
[CrossRef]
Haindl, P., & Weinberger, G. (2024). Students’ experiences of using ChatGPT in an undergraduate programming course. IEEE Access,
12, 43519–43529. [CrossRef]
Hajj, J. A., & Sah, M. (2023, November 23–25). Assessing the impact of ChatGPT in a PHP programming course. 2023 7th International
Symposium on Innovative Approaches in Smart Technologies (ISAS) (pp. 1–10), Istanbul, Turkiye. [CrossRef]
Han, J., Yoo, H., Myung, J., Kim, M., Lee, T. Y., Ahn, S.-Y., & Oh, A. (2024). RECIPE4U: Student-ChatGPT interaction dataset in EFL
writing education. arXiv, arXiv:2403.08272.
Hu, Y.-H. (2024a). Implementing generative AI chatbots as a decision aid for enhanced values clarification exercises in online business
ethics education. Educational Technology & Society, 27(3), 356–373.
Hu, Y.-H. (2024b). Improving ethical dilemma learning: Featuring thinking aloud pair problem solving (TAPPS) and AI-assisted virtual
learning companion. Education and Information Technologies, 29(17), 22969–22990. [CrossRef]
Hu, Y.-H., Hsieh, C.-L., & Salac, E. S. N. (2024). Advancing freshman skills in information literacy and self-regulation: The role of AI
learning companions and Mandala Chart in academic libraries. The Journal of Academic Librarianship, 50(3), 102885. [CrossRef]
Huesca, G., Martínez-Treviño, Y., Molina-Espinosa, J. M., Sanromán-Calleros, A. R., Martínez-Román, R., Cendejas-Castro, E. A., &
Bustos, R. (2024). Effectiveness of using ChatGPT as a tool to strengthen benefits of the flipped learning strategy. Education
Sciences, 14(6), 660. [CrossRef]
Hwang, W.-Y., & Nurtantyana, R. (2022, November 10–11). The integration of multiple recognition technologies and artificial intelligence to
facilitate EFL writing in authentic contexts. 2022 6th International Conference on Information Technology (InCIT) (pp. 379–383),
Nonthaburi, Thailand. [CrossRef]
Ioku, T., Kondo, S., & Watanabe, Y. (2024). Acceptance of generative AI in higher education: A latent profile analysis of policy guidelines.
Research Square.
Ji, Y., Zou, X., Li, T., & Zhan, Z. (2023, November 3–5). The effectiveness of ChatGPT on pre-service teachers’ STEM teaching literacy, learning
performance, and cognitive load in a teacher training course. Proceedings of the 2023 6th International Conference on Educational
Technology Management (pp. 16–22), Guangzhou, China. [CrossRef]
Johnson, D. M., Doss, W., & Estepp, C. M. (2024a). Agriculture students’ use of generative artificial intelligence for microcontroller
programming. Natural Sciences Education, 53(2), e20155. [CrossRef]
Johnson, D. M., Doss, W., & Estepp, C. M. (2024b). Using ChatGPT with novice arduino programmers: Effects on performance, interest,
self-efficacy, and programming ability. Journal of Research in Technical Careers, 8(1), 1. [CrossRef]
Jošt, G., Taneski, V., & Karakatiˇc, S. (2024). The impact of large language models on programming education and student learning
outcomes. Applied Sciences, 14(10), 4115. [CrossRef]
Karimova, G. Z., Kim, Y. D., & Shirkhanbeik, A. (2025). Poietic symbiosis or algorithmic subjugation: Generative AI technology in
marketing communications education. Education and Information Technologies, 30(2), 2185–2209. [CrossRef]
Kavadella, A., Dias Da Silva, M. A., Kaklamanos, E. G., Stamatopoulos, V., & Giannakopoulos, K. (2024). Evaluation of ChatGPT’s
real-life implementation in undergraduate dental education: Mixed methods study. JMIR Medical Education, 10, e51344. [CrossRef]
Kétyi, A., Géring, Z., & Dén-Nagy, I. (2025). ChatGPT from the students’ point of view—Lessons from a pilot study using ChatGPT in
business higher education. Society and Economy, 47(1), 1–21. [CrossRef]
Kharrufa, A., & Johnson, I. (2024, June 5–7). The potential and implications of generative AI on HCI education. Proceedings of the 6th Annual
Symposium on HCI Education (pp. 1–8), New York, NY, USA. [CrossRef]
Kim, D., Majdara, A., & Olson, W. (2024). A pilot study inquiring into the impact of ChatGPT on lab report writing in introductory
engineering labs. International Journal of Technology in Education, 7(2), 259–289. [CrossRef]


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
23 of 25
King, M. R., Abdulrahman, A. M., Petrovic, M. I., Poley, P. L., Hall, S. P., Kulapatana, S., & Lamantia, Z. E. (2024). Incorporation of
ChatGPT and other large language models into a graduate level computational bioengineering course. Cellular and Molecular
Bioengineering, 17(1), 1–6. [CrossRef]
Kosar, T., Ostoji´c, D., Liu, Y. D., & Mernik, M. (2024). Computer science education in ChatGPT Era: Experiences from an experiment in
a programming course for novice programmers. Mathematics, 12(5), 629. [CrossRef]
Kucuk, T. (2024). ChatGPT integrated grammar teaching and learning in EFL classes: A study on tishk international university students
in Erbil, Iraq. Arab World English Journal, 1(1), 100–111. [CrossRef]
Kumar, H., Xiao, R., Lawson, B., Musabirov, I., Shi, J., Wang, X., Luo, H., Williams, J. J., Rafferty, A., Stamper, J., & Liut, M. (2024,
July 18–20). Supporting self-reflection at scale with large language models: Insights from randomized field experiments in classrooms.
Proceedings of the Eleventh ACM Conference on Learning @ Scale (pp. 86–97), Atlanta, GA, USA. [CrossRef]
Lee, H.-Y., Chen, P.-H., Wang, W.-S., Huang, Y.-M., & Wu, T.-T. (2024). Empowering ChatGPT with guidance mechanism in blended
learning: Effect of self-regulated learning, higher-order thinking skills, and knowledge construction. International Journal of
Educational Technology in Higher Education, 21(1), 16. [CrossRef]
Lee, M.-H., & Kim, J.-W. (2023). Case study of a class on classical narratives using ChatGPT: Focusing on the classics retelling project.
JAHR, 14(2), 379–402. [CrossRef]
Li, H. (2023). Effects of a ChatGPT-based flipped learning guiding approach on learners’ courseware project performances and
perceptions. Australasian Journal of Educational Technology, 39(5), 40–58. [CrossRef]
Li, M. (2024). The intelligent transformation of higher education: A historical comparative study. Tsinghua Journal of Education,
45(4), 14–24+59.
Li, X., Yang, Z., Zhang, W., & Yang, Z. (2024, March 22–24). ChatGPT and teacher human-machine collaboration for personalized teaching—
Taking poetry writing teaching as an example. 2024 13th International Conference on Educational and Information Technology
(ICEIT) (pp. 7–11), Chengdu, China. [CrossRef]
Lu, J., Zheng, R., Gong, Z., & Xu, H. (2024). Supporting teachers’ professional development with generative AI: The effects on higher
order thinking and self-efficacy. IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies, 17, 1267–1277. [CrossRef]
Lu, Q., Yao, Y., Xiao, L., Yuan, M., Wang, J., & Zhu, X. (2024). Can ChatGPT effectively complement teacher assessment of undergraduate
students’ academic writing? Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 49(5), 616–633. [CrossRef]
Maher, M. L., Tadimalla, S. Y., & Dhamani, D. (2023, October 18–21). An exploratory study on the impact of ai tools on the student experience
in programming courses: An intersectional analysis approach. 2023 IEEE Frontiers in Education Conference (FIE) (pp. 1–5), College
Station, TX, USA. [CrossRef]
Martins Ferreira, J. M. (2024, May 8–11). A strategy for AI-supplemented teaching and learning. 2024 IEEE Global Engineering Education
Conference (EDUCON) (pp. 1–10), Kos Island, Greece. [CrossRef]
Mayring, P. (2015). Qualitative content analysis: Theoretical background and procedures. In A. Bikner-Ahsbahs, C. Knipping, &
N. Presmeg (Eds.), Approaches to qualitative research in mathematics education. Advances in Mathematics Education. Springer.
[CrossRef]
McGuire, A., Qureshi, W., & Saad, M. (2024). A constructivist model for leveraging GenAI tools for individualized, peer-simulated
feedback on student writing. International Journal of Technology in Education, 7(2), 326–352. [CrossRef]
Meron, Y., & Araci, Y. T. (2023). Artificial intelligence in design education: Evaluating ChatGPT as a virtual colleague for post-graduate
course development. Design Science, 9, e30. [CrossRef]
Moher, D., Shamseer, L., Clarke, M., Ghersi, D., Liberati, A., Petticrew, M., Shekelle, P., Stewart, L. A., & PRISMA-P Group. (2015).
Preferred reporting items for systematic review and meta-analysis protocols (PRISMA-P) 2015 statement. Systematic Reviews,
4(1), 1. [CrossRef]
Moorhouse, B. L., Wan, Y., Wu, C., Kohnke, L., Ho, T. Y., & Kwong, T. (2024). Developing language teachers’ professional generative AI
competence: An intervention study in an initial language teacher education course. System, 125, 103399. [CrossRef]
Neyem, A., González, L. A., Mendoza, M., Alcocer, J. P. S., Centellas, L., & Paredes, C. (2024). Toward an AI knowledge assistant
for context-aware learning experiences in software capstone project development. IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies,
17, 1599–1614. [CrossRef]
Nguyen, A., Hong, Y., Dang, B., & Huang, X. (2024). Human-AI collaboration patterns in AI-assisted academic writing. Studies in
Higher Education, 49(5), 847–864. [CrossRef]
Ogunleye, B., Zakariyyah, K. I., Ajao, O., Olayinka, O., & Sharma, H. (2024). A systematic review of generative AI for teaching and
Learning Practice. Education Sciences, 14(6), 636.
Onwuegbuzie, A. J., Frels, R. K., & Hwang, E. (2016). Mapping Saldana‘s coding methods onto the literature review process. Journal of
Educational Issues, 2(1), 130–150.
Pantazatos, D., Grammatikou, M., & Maglaris, V. (2024, May 8–11). Enhancing soft skills in network management education: A study
on the impact of GenAI-based virtual assistants. 2024 IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference (EDUCON) (pp. 1–5),
Kos Island, Greece. [CrossRef]


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
24 of 25
Pesovski, I., Santos, R., Henriques, R., & Trajkovik, V. (2024). Generative AI for customizable learning experiences. Sustainability,
16(7), 3034. [CrossRef]
Pérez-Colado, I. J., Freire-Morán, M., Calvo-Morata, A., Pérez-Colado, V. M., & Fernández-Manjón, B. (2024, May 8–11). AI asyet
another tool in undergraduate student projects: Preliminary results. 2024 IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference (EDUCON)
(pp. 1–7), Kos Island, Greece. [CrossRef]
Pham, T., Nguyen, T. B., Ha, S., & Nguyen Ngoc, N. T. (2023). Digital transformation in engineering education: Exploring the potential
of AI-assisted learning. Australasian Journal of Educational Technology, 39(5), 1–19. [CrossRef]
Picciano, A. G. (2024). Graduate teacher education students use and evaluate ChatGPT as an essay-writing tool. Online Learning,
28(2), 1–20. [CrossRef]
Pyo, S.-Y. (2024). Exploring the effectiveness of smart education in a college writing course utilizing multimedia learning tools. Journal
of Practical Engineering Education, 16(2), 143–150. [CrossRef]
Qureshi, B. (2023, June 9–11). ChatGPT in computer science curriculum assessment: An analysis of its successes and shortcomings. 2023 9th
International Conference on E-Society, e-Learning and e-Technologies (pp. 7–13), Portsmouth, UK. [CrossRef]
Ramos, B., & Condotta, R. (2024). Enhancing learning and collaboration in a unit operations course: Using AI as a catalyst to create
engaging problem-based learning scenarios. Journal of Chemical Education, 101(8), 3246–3254. [CrossRef]
Randall, N., Wäckerle, D., Stein, N., Goßler, D., & Bente, S. (2024). What an AI-embracing software engineering curriculum should look
like: An empirical study. IEEE Software, 41(2), 36–43. [CrossRef]
Reed, J., Alterio, B., Coblenz, H., O’Lear, T., & Metz, T. (2023). AI image-generation as a teaching strategy in nursing education. Journal
of Interactive Learning Research, 34(2), 369–399.
Ruff, E. F., Engen, M. A., Franz, J. L., Mauser, J. F., West, J. K., & Zemke, J. M. O. (2024). ChatGPT writing assistance and evaluation
assignments across the chemistry curriculum. Journal of Chemical Education, 101(6), 2483–2492. [CrossRef]
Santos, P., Urgel, K., & Moreno, V. (2024, May 20–24). GenAI in teaching and learning of ICT engineering education: A literature review and
illustrative scenarios. 2024 47th MIPRO ICT and Electronics Convention (MIPRO) (pp. 1338–1343), Opatija, Croatia.
Saritepeci, M., & Yildiz Durak, H. (2024). Effectiveness of artificial intelligence integration in design-based learning on design thinking
mindset, creative and reflective thinking skills: An experimental study. Education and Information Technologies, 29(18), 25175–25209.
[CrossRef]
Shaer, O., & Cooper, A. (2024). Integrating generative artificial intelligence to a project-based tangible interaction course. IEEE Pervasive
Computing, 23(1), 63–69. [CrossRef]
Stampfl, R., Geyer, B., Deissl-O’Meara, M., & Ivkic, I. (2024). Revolutionising role-playing games with ChatGPT. Advances in Artificial
Intelligence and Machine Learning, 4(2), 2244–2257. [CrossRef]
Stryker, C., & Scapicchio, M. (2024). What is generative AI. Available online: https://www.ibm.com/topics/generative-ai (accessed on
10 December 2024).
Sudirman, I. D., & Rahmatillah, I. (2023, June 7–10). Artificial intelligence-assisted discovery learning: An educational experience for
entrepreneurship students using ChatGPT. 2023 IEEE World AI IoT Congress (AIIoT) (pp. 0786–0791), Seattle, WA, USA. [CrossRef]
Šedlbauer, J., ˇCinˇcera, J., Slavík, M., & Hartlová, A. (2024). Students’ reflections on their experience with ChatGPT. Journal of Computer
Assisted Learning, 40(4), 1526–1534. [CrossRef]
Taiye, M., High, C., Velander, J., Matar, K., Okmanis, R., & Milrad, M. (2024, April 8–12). GenAI-enhanced academic writing: A stakeholder-
centric approach for the design and development of CHAT4ISP-AI. Proceedings of the 39th ACM/SIGAPP Symposium on Applied
Computing (pp. 74–80), Avila, Spain.
Tam, A. C. F. (2025). Interacting with ChatGPT for internal feedback and factors affecting feedback quality. Assessment & Evaluation in
Higher Education, 50(2), 219–235. [CrossRef]
Tsai, M. L., Ong, C. W., & Chen, C. L. (2023). Exploring the use of large language models (LLMs) in chemical engineering education:
Building core course problem models with Chat-GPT. Education for Chemical Engineers, 44, 71–95. [CrossRef]
Tuesta Durango, N., Mansilla Blanco, M. I., Campelo Rodríguez, M. P., & Rey de las Moras, M. C. (2024). Flip teaching active
methodology as a means to prevent fraudulent use of ChatGPT by students. In F. J. García-Peñalvo, M. L. Sein-Echaluce, & A.
Fidalgo-Blanco (Eds.), Innovation and technologies for the digital transformation of education: European and Latin American perspectives
(pp. 43–52). Springer.
Uddin, S. M. J., Albert, A., Ovid, A., & Alsharef, A. (2023). Leveraging CHATGPT to aid construction hazard recognition and support
safety education and training. Sustainability, 15(9), 7121. [CrossRef]
Vadaparty, A., Zingaro, D., Smith, D. H., IV, Padala, M., Alvarado, C., Gorson Benario, J., & Porter, L. (2024, July 8–10). Cs1-llm:
Integrating llms into cs1 instruction. Proceedings of the 2024 on Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education (Vol. 1,
pp. 297–303), Milan, Italy.
Van Horn, K. (2024). ChatGPT in English language learning: Exploring perceptions and promoting autonomy in a university EFL
context. Teaching English as a Second or Foreign Language—TESL-EJ, 28(1), 1. [CrossRef]


Behav. Sci. 2025, 15, 467
25 of 25
Wahba, F., Ajlouni, A. O., & Abumosa, M. A. (2024). The impact of ChatGPT-based learning statistics on undergraduates’ statistical
reasoning and attitudes toward statistics. Eurasia Journal of Mathematics, Science and Technology Education, 20(7), em2468. [CrossRef]
Wang, M., Wang, M., Xu, X., Yang, L., Cai, D., & Yin, M. (2023). Unleashing ChatGPT’s power: A case study on optimizing information
retrieval in flipped classrooms via prompt engineering. IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies, 17, 629–641. [CrossRef]
Wang, W. S., Lin, C. J., Lee, H. Y., Huang, Y. M., & Wu, T. T. (2024). Integrating feedback mechanisms and ChatGPT for VR-based
experiential learning: Impacts on reflective thinking and Aiot physical hands-on tasks. Interactive Learning Environments,
33(2), 1770–1787. [CrossRef]
Waseem, M., Das, T., Ahmad, A., Liang, P., Fehmideh, M., & Mikkonen, T. (2024). ChatGPT as a software development bot: A
project-based study. arXiv, arXiv:2310.13648. [CrossRef]
West, J. K., Franz, J. L., Hein, S. M., Leverentz-Culp, H. R., Mauser, J. F., Ruff, E. F., & Zemke, J. M. (2023). An analysis of AI-
generated laboratory reports across the chemistry curriculum and student perceptions of ChatGPT. Journal of Chemical Education,
100(11), 4351–4359. [CrossRef]
Wiboolyasarin, W., Wiboolyasarin, K., Suwanwihok, K., Jinowat, N., & Muenjanchoey, R. (2024). Synergizing collaborative writing
and AI feedback: An investigation into enhancing L2 writing proficiency in wiki-based environments. Computers and Education:
Artificial Intelligence, 6, 100228. [CrossRef]
Wieser, M., Schöffmann, K., Stefanics, D., Bollin, A., & Pasterk, S. (2023). Investigating the role of ChatGPT in supporting text-based
programming education for students and teachers. In J.-P. Pellet, & G. Parriaux (Eds.), Informatics in schools. Beyond bits and bytes:
Nurturing informatics intelligence in education (Vol. 14296, pp. 40–53). Springer Nature. [CrossRef]
Yang, Y., Luo, J., Yang, M., Yang, R., & Chen, J. (2024). From surface to deep learning approaches with GenAI in higher education: An
analytical framework of student agency. Studies in Higher Education, 49(5), 817–830.
Younis, B. K. (2024). Examining students’ self-regulation skills, confidence to learn online, and perception of satisfaction and usefulness
of online classes in three suggested online learning environments that integrates ChatGPT. Online Learning, 28(2), n2.
Zdravkova, K., Dalipi, F., Ahlgren, F., Ilijoski, B., & Olsson, T. (2024, May 8–11). Unveiling the impact of large language models on student
learning: A comprehensive case study. 2024 IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference (EDUCON) (pp. 1–8), Kos Island, Greece.
[CrossRef]
Zewe, A. (2023, November 9). How do powerful generative AI systems like ChatGPT work, and what makes them different from other types
of artificial intelligence? MIT News | Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Available online: https://news.mit.edu/2023/
explained-generative-ai-1109 (accessed on 29 November 2024).
Zhang, J., Liu, Y., Cai, W., Peng, Y., Qi, S., Long, T., & Ge, B. (2024). Investigation of the effectiveness of applying ChatGPT in dialogic
teaching using electroencephalography. arXiv, arXiv:2403.16687.
Zhou, W., & Kim, Y. (2024). Innovative music education: An empirical assessment of ChatGPT-4’s impact on student learning
experiences. Education and Information Technologies, 29, 20855–20881. [CrossRef]
Zhu, G., Sudarshan, V., Kow, J. F., & Ong, Y. S. (2024, June 25–27). Human-generative AI collaborative problem solving who leads and how
students perceive the interactions. 2024 IEEE Conference on Artificial Intelligence (CAI) (pp. 680–686), Singapore. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.

